 Pada.org Mobile Companion Application - Comprehensive Implementation Plan Executive Summary Yes, creating a mobile companion application for Pada.org is absolutely feasible. This document provides a complete implementation plan that leverages the TopScore API for core functionality while adding custom features for team communication and league announcements. The application will be built using modern cross-platform mobile development technologies, with a custom backend to handle real-time chat and push notifications that are not natively supported by TopScore. Key Scope Clarifications from Previous Version: This implementation plan reflects updated requirements that narrow the application's scope. League registration has been removed from the mobile application, as users will continue to register through the Pada.org website. The mobile app will serve as a read-only companion that displays team information, schedules, and registrations while enabling team communication and (for captains) live score reporting. Users can export their schedules to external calendar services of their choice. 1. Project Overview 1.1 Project Name PadaHub - The Official Pada.org Mobile Companion Application 1.2 Core Objectives The primary goal of PadaHub is to provide Pada.org members with a seamless mobile experience that displays information from the website and enhances communication among team members. The application enables users to view their league participation, stay connected with teammates, and receive timely updates from league administrators—all from their mobile devices. Unlike the website, the mobile application does not enable registration, team management, or data modification; these functions remain on the website. 1.3 Target Users The application serves three distinct user groups with differentiated experiences. Players constitute the largest user segment, requiring read-only access to team information, schedules, chat features, and general league announcements. Team Captains have the same access as players plus the ability to report live scores during games. League Administrators have the same access as players plus the ability to create and broadcast announcements organization-wide. 1.4 Scope Boundaries This implementation plan explicitly defines what the mobile companion application does and does not do. The application enables users to log in using Pada.org credentials, view their registrations across teams, leagues, and events, browse team information including rosters, view schedules with calendar export capabilities, participate in team chat conversations, receive league announcements, and (for captains) report live game scores. The application explicitly does not enable league registration (handled on the website), team roster modifications, schedule changes, event creation, user profile editing, or any administrative data modifications. All write operations beyond chat messages, announcement creation (for admins), and live score reporting (for captains) remain on the TopScore-powered website. 2. Technical Architecture 2.1 Technology Stack The mobile application will be built using React Native with Expo, which provides the optimal balance of development speed, cross-platform compatibility, and access to native device features. React Native was selected over alternatives such as Flutter or Swift/Kotlin because it offers superior code reusability between iOS and Android platforms, an extensive ecosystem of pre-built components, and a gentler learning curve for developers familiar with JavaScript. The framework also integrates seamlessly with the proposed backend architecture and supports the real-time features required for chat functionality. The backend services will be implemented using Supabase, an open-source Firebase alternative that provides authentication, real-time databases, push notifications, and edge functions. Supabase was chosen because it offers generous free tier limits suitable for initial deployment, includes built-in real-time subscription capabilities essential for chat features, provides robust Row Level Security for data access control, and delivers a straightforward migration path to self-hosting if required. The platform handles the custom chat and announcement features that extend beyond TopScore's native capabilities, plus live score reporting storage. 2.2 System Architecture Overview The application follows a layered architecture pattern that separates concerns appropriately and facilitates maintenance and testing. The presentation layer encompasses all React Native screens, components, and navigation structures. The business logic layer contains custom hooks, context providers, and service modules that handle application-specific logic. The data access layer manages API communications with TopScore and interactions with the Supabase backend. The infrastructure layer provides authentication services, push notification handling, and secure storage for sensitive credentials. ┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐ │ Mobile Client │ │ ┌─────────────┐ ┌─────────────┐ ┌─────────────────────────┐ │ │ │ Screens │ │ Hooks &amp; │ │ Service Layer │ │ │ │ &amp; Components│←→│ Context │←→│ (TopScore + Supabase) │ │ │ └─────────────┘ └─────────────┘ └─────────────────────────┘ │ └─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘ │ ┌───────────────┴───────────────┐ │ │ ▼ ▼ ┌─────────────────────────┐ ┌─────────────────────────────┐ │ TopScore API │ │ Supabase Backend │ │ (Read: Leagues, Teams, │ │ (Chat, Announcements, │ │ Events, Registrations)│ │ Live Scores, Push Notif) │ └─────────────────────────┘ └─────────────────────────────┘ 2.3 Data Flow Architecture The application implements a hybrid data flow strategy that leverages the strengths of both TopScore and Supabase. TopScore serves as the source of truth for all league-related data including user profiles, team memberships, schedules, and registrations. All data retrieved from TopScore is read-only within the mobile application. Supabase handles all real-time communication features including team chat messages, league announcements, and user presence indicators. Supabase also stores live game scores reported by captains, which sync with TopScore through scheduled background jobs if TopScore supports score reporting via API. 3. TopScore API Integration 3.1 Authentication Strategy The application will implement OAuth2 authentication with TopScore, which provides the highest level of security and data access as specified in the TopScore API documentation. The OAuth2 flow enables the application to access user accounts securely while respecting TopScore's data visibility restrictions. The authentication flow begins when a user enters their Pada.org credentials within the mobile application. The application sends these credentials along with the Pada.org OAuth client credentials to the TopScore OAuth endpoint at pada.usetopscore.com/api/oauth/server using the password grant type. Upon successful authentication, TopScore returns an access token that the application stores securely using encrypted local storage. This access token is then included in the Authorization header for all subsequent API requests to TopScore endpoints. The application maintains token validity by implementing automatic refresh logic. When an API request returns a 401 status code indicating token expiration, the application attempts to re-authenticate using stored refresh credentials. If re-authentication fails, the user is prompted to log in again. The authentication state is persisted across application sessions using secure storage that encrypts the access token at rest. 3.2 Core API Endpoints (Read-Only) The following TopScore API endpoints will be integrated into the mobile application. All integrations are read-only; the mobile application does not create, modify, or delete any data through these endpoints. The /api/persons/me endpoint retrieves the authenticated user's profile information including their name, email, profile picture, and unique person identifier. This data populates the user's profile screen and serves as the primary reference for personalization throughout the application. The endpoint also returns the user's role within the organization (player, captain, coach, league admin), which determines which features are accessible. The endpoint requires the OAuth2 access token in the Authorization header and returns user data that may include additional fields based on the user's role within the Pada.org organization. The /api/registrations endpoint returns all registrations associated with the authenticated user. Each registration record contains references to the user's team, the league or event they are registered for, their registration status, and any associated purchases or fees. This endpoint powers the user's registration history screen and determines which teams and leagues the user has access to within the application. The application displays this information read-only; users cannot modify registrations through the mobile app. The /api/teams endpoint retrieves team information with optional filtering by registration or event. Each team record includes the team name, division, coach or captain information, roster details, and associated events. The endpoint supports the fields parameter to embed related data such as locations and schedules, reducing the number of API calls required to render team screens. All team data is displayed read-only. The /api/events endpoint provides access to league events including games, practices, and tournaments. Events include date and time information, location details, opponent information for games, and current status (scheduled, in-progress, completed, cancelled). This endpoint drives the schedule screens and calendar integration features. The application does not enable schedule modifications; users who need to modify events must do so through the website. The /api/locations endpoint returns venue information including addresses, facility details, and maps. Location data is embedded in event records but can also be queried independently for location search and filtering features. The application uses this data for map integration and directions. 3.3 Data Caching Strategy To ensure responsive user experience and reduce API load, the application implements a multi-tier caching strategy. In-memory caching stores frequently accessed data such as user profile and current team information in memory during application sessions. This cache provides sub-millisecond access times and automatically invalidates when data is updated or refreshed. Persistent caching stores less volatile data such as team rosters and upcoming schedules in local device storage using an encrypted SQLite database. This cache survives application restarts and enables offline access to previously viewed data. Background synchronization refreshes this cache when network connectivity is available, ensuring data remains current. Cache invalidation follows a time-based expiration strategy with different intervals for different data types. User profile data expires after 24 hours, schedule data after 1 hour, and team roster data after 6 hours. Additionally, all caches are invalidated upon receiving push notifications indicating data changes. 4. Feature Specifications 4.1 Authentication Module The authentication module provides the foundation for all user interactions within the application. The module supports three primary flows: existing user login, authenticated session management, and account linking for existing Pada.org users. Existing users log in using their Pada.org credentials, which are authenticated against TopScore's OAuth2 endpoint. The login screen includes a &quot;Remember Me&quot; option that persists the session for up to 30 days, reducing friction for returning users. Password reset functionality redirects users to TopScore's password reset flow via deep link, maintaining security by keeping credential management within TopScore. Session management handles token refresh, session expiry, and multi-device considerations. When a user's access token expires, the application automatically attempts re-authentication. If re-authentication fails due to password changes or security concerns, the user is logged out and prompted to re-authenticate. The application tracks the last authentication timestamp and warns users who have been logged in for extended periods. The application does not support new user registration. Users who do not have Pada.org accounts must register through the website before using the mobile application. The login screen displays a &quot;Register on Website&quot; link that opens the Pada.org registration page in the device's browser. 4.2 Registration Viewing Module The registration viewing module provides read-only access to the user's registrations across the Pada.org platform. This module displays information about teams, leagues, and events the user is associated with, enabling users to understand their participation history and current commitments. The my registrations screen presents a comprehensive view of all registrations associated with the user's account. Registrations are organized into three categories: current registrations (active participation), pending registrations (awaiting approval or payment on the website), and historical registrations (past seasons and completed leagues). Each registration card displays the registration type (team, league, or event), the associated organization, registration status, and effective date range. Registration detail screens provide comprehensive information about individual registrations. For team registrations, the detail view shows the team name, division, season, coaches, and teammates. For league registrations, the detail view shows the league name, age group, skill level, and associated team. For event registrations, the detail view shows the event name, date, location, and registration details. All information is displayed read-only with a prominent notice directing users to the website for modifications. Quick navigation links enable users to jump from a registration to related information. A team registration links to the team detail screen for roster and schedule viewing. A league registration links to the league overview showing all associated teams and events. An event registration links to the event detail screen with location and schedule information. 4.3 Team Information Module (Read-Only) The team information module provides comprehensive read-only access to team data including rosters, management contacts, and team-specific information. The application does not enable any modifications to team data; all changes must be made through the Pada.org website by authorized administrators. The my teams screen serves as the primary navigation hub for team-related features. This screen lists all teams the user is currently associated with, whether as a player, captain, or coach. Each team card displays the team name, sport, division, next upcoming event, and team logo or color scheme. Quick actions allow users to jump directly to chat, schedule, or roster views. The team detail screen provides a comprehensive overview of team information. The header displays the team name, logo, and current season. Tabbed navigation provides access to roster, schedule, and chat sections. The roster tab lists all team members with roles, contact information (visible based on privacy settings). The schedule tab presents upcoming and past events in chronological order with filtering options. All information is retrieved from TopScore and displayed read-only. The roster view presents team members in a scannable list format. Each roster entry displays the player's name, jersey number (if available), primary position, and role on the team (player, captain, coach). Contact information is displayed based on the privacy settings configured in TopScore. Users can tap a roster entry to view additional player details if available. A prominent notice throughout the team screens informs users that modifications are not available in the mobile application. The notice includes a link to open the Pada.org website where authorized users can make roster and team modifications. 4.4 Schedule Module with Calendar Export The schedule module presents all events relevant to the user's teams and registrations in an accessible mobile format, with calendar export capabilities for integrating with external calendar services. The main schedule view displays a week-based calendar with event indicators. Users can swipe between weeks or tap to switch to month view. Each day cell shows event count and highlights days with games or important events. The today button provides quick navigation to the current date. Filtering controls allow users to show or hide specific teams, event types (games, practices, tournaments), or event statuses. The event detail screen provides comprehensive information about individual games, practices, and tournaments. The header shows event type, date, time, and current status. Location section displays the venue name, address, and a map preview with one-tap navigation to device maps applications. For games, the details include opponent information, division standings (if applicable), and game-specific notes from league administrators. Calendar export functionality enables users to add events to their preferred calendar application. The event detail screen includes an &quot;Add to Calendar&quot; button that generates calendar files in standard formats (ICS). Users can choose to add individual events or subscribe to recurring calendar feeds that automatically sync with their calendar application. Supported calendar services include Apple Calendar, Google Calendar, Outlook, and any other service that supports ICS format. Calendar subscription features provide ongoing synchronization with Pada.org schedules. Users can subscribe to team-specific calendars that update automatically when TopScore publishes schedule changes. A master calendar feed includes all events from all teams the user is registered with. Calendar URL sharing enables users to subscribe on multiple devices or share their schedule with family members. Push notification reminders provide timely alerts before scheduled events. Users configure notification preferences including advance notice duration and notification types (games only, practices, all events). Weather-related announcements from league administrators alert users to potential schedule changes when conditions warrant. 4.5 Live Score Reporting Module (Captains Only) The live score reporting module enables team captains to report game scores in real-time during matches. This feature is restricted to users identified as captains in TopScore; other users see game information but cannot report scores. The live score feature is accessible from the game detail screen for captains. When viewing an upcoming or in-progress game, captains see a &quot;Report Score&quot; button that initiates the score reporting flow. Non-captains see the same game detail information but without the score reporting capability. The score reporting interface provides an intuitive game clock and score input interface. Captains enter scores for their team and the opponent, with visual confirmation of each entry. Game status options allow captains to report games as scheduled, in-progress, completed, or cancelled. The interface validates entries and prevents obviously incorrect data (such as negative scores). Score submission sends data to Supabase for storage and potential synchronization with TopScore. Supabase stores the score report with timestamp, reporter identity, and score details. Background jobs attempt to sync reported scores with TopScore if TopScore's API supports score updates; if not, scores remain in Supabase for display within the app. Score display throughout the application shows the most recent reported score for each game. The schedule list shows scores for completed games. The event detail screen displays the final score prominently. Other users receive push notifications when scores are updated, keeping the entire team informed during games. 4.6 Team Chat Module The team chat module implements a GroupMe-style messaging experience that enables real-time communication among team members. This feature requires a custom implementation using Supabase's real-time capabilities because TopScore does not provide native chat functionality. The chat list screen displays all team conversations the user participates in, organized by team. Unread conversations show badge counts and preview the most recent message. Each conversation row displays the team name or group name, last message preview, timestamp, and unread indicator. Search functionality allows users to find specific conversations or message content. The chat conversation screen implements familiar messaging patterns. Messages display in chronological order with sender avatar, name, timestamp, and message content. Image and file attachments are supported with inline preview and tap-to-expand viewing. Message status indicators show send progress, delivery confirmation, and read receipts. Typing indicators show when other team members are composing messages. Message composition supports rich content sharing. Users can send text messages, photos from camera or gallery, and share location for meetup coordination. @mentions enable direct addressing of specific team members, triggering notifications for mentioned users. Message reactions allow quick responses without full replies. Chat settings provide customization and moderation controls. Team captains can pin important messages that remain visible at the top of the conversation. Message editing and deletion are supported with clear visual indicators for modified content. Chat history is searchable, allowing users to find specific information from past conversations. 4.7 Announcements Module The announcements module enables league administrators to broadcast important information to their audiences. Team captains can also create announcements scoped to their team. This module provides the communication channel for urgent updates such as game cancellations, weather delays, and schedule changes. The announcements list displays all broadcasts relevant to the user's teams and registrations. Announcements are organized by recency with visual distinction between urgent announcements (highlighted in red), recent announcements, and older archived items. Each announcement card shows the announcement type, title, preview text, timestamp, and read status. Unread announcements are visually distinct to encourage engagement. The announcement detail screen presents the full announcement content with formatting preserved. Headers display the announcement type icon, title, author, and publication timestamp. Rich text content supports formatting, embedded images, and links. Action buttons enable quick responses such as acknowledging receipt or RSVPing to event-related announcements. League administrators access a comprehensive announcement creation interface. The compose screen supports plain text and rich formatting for announcement content. Audience selection allows targeting specific divisions, teams, or individual members. Scheduling enables advance composition with automatic publication at specified times. Urgency flags mark announcements for push notification priority delivery. Team captains have limited announcement creation capabilities. Captains can create announcements scoped to their specific team only. Captain announcements are visually distinguished from league announcements in the interface. League-wide announcements require league administrator access. Push notifications deliver announcements directly to user devices. Critical announcements such as weather cancellations trigger immediate high-priority notifications with preview content. Standard announcements are batched and delivered at configured intervals to avoid notification fatigue. Users control their notification preferences including categories, timing windows, and quiet hours. 5. Database Schema 5.1 Supabase Schema Design The Supabase PostgreSQL database implements the following schema for chat, announcements, live scores, and calendar sync features. This schema is designed for scalability and supports Row Level Security for data access control. sql -- Teams table for chat group management and score reporting CREATE TABLE teams ( id UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(), topscore_id TEXT UNIQUE NOT NULL , name TEXT NOT NULL , created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW (), updated_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW () ); -- Team members linking users to teams (synced from TopScore) CREATE TABLE team_members ( id UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(), team_id UUID REFERENCES teams(id) ON DELETE CASCADE , topscore_person_id TEXT NOT NULL , role TEXT DEFAULT 'member' , -- 'member', 'captain', 'coach', 'admin' joined_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW (), UNIQUE (team_id, topscore_person_id) ); -- Chat messages table CREATE TABLE messages ( id UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(), team_id UUID REFERENCES teams(id) ON DELETE CASCADE , sender_id TEXT NOT NULL , -- topscore_person_id sender_name TEXT NOT NULL , content TEXT NOT NULL , message_type TEXT DEFAULT 'text' , -- 'text', 'image', 'location' attachment_url TEXT , created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW (), updated_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW () ); -- Message reactions for quick responses CREATE TABLE message_reactions ( id UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(), message_id UUID REFERENCES messages(id) ON DELETE CASCADE , user_id TEXT NOT NULL , -- topscore_person_id emoji TEXT NOT NULL , created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW (), UNIQUE (message_id, user_id, emoji) ); -- Pinned messages for team captains CREATE TABLE pinned_messages ( id UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(), message_id UUID REFERENCES messages(id) ON DELETE CASCADE , team_id UUID REFERENCES teams(id) ON DELETE CASCADE , pinned_by TEXT NOT NULL , -- topscore_person_id pinned_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW (), UNIQUE (team_id, message_id) ); -- Announcements table CREATE TABLE announcements ( id UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(), author_id TEXT NOT NULL , -- topscore_person_id author_name TEXT NOT NULL , author_role TEXT NOT NULL , -- 'league_admin', 'team_captain' target_type TEXT NOT NULL , -- 'league', 'division', 'team' target_id TEXT NOT NULL , -- league/division/team identifier title TEXT NOT NULL , content TEXT NOT NULL , is_urgent BOOLEAN DEFAULT FALSE , created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW (), expires_at TIMESTAMPTZ ); -- Read receipts for announcements CREATE TABLE announcement_reads ( id UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(), announcement_id UUID REFERENCES announcements(id) ON DELETE CASCADE , user_id TEXT NOT NULL , -- topscore_person_id read_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW (), UNIQUE (announcement_id, user_id) ); -- Live game scores reported by captains CREATE TABLE game_scores ( id UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(), topscore_event_id TEXT NOT NULL , event_name TEXT NOT NULL , team_id UUID REFERENCES teams(id) ON DELETE SET NULL , home_team_name TEXT NOT NULL , away_team_name TEXT NOT NULL , home_score INTEGER DEFAULT 0 , away_score INTEGER DEFAULT 0 , game_status TEXT DEFAULT 'scheduled' , -- 'scheduled', 'in_progress', 'completed', 'cancelled' reported_by TEXT NOT NULL , -- topscore_person_id reporter_name TEXT NOT NULL , reported_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW (), synced_to_topscore BOOLEAN DEFAULT FALSE , UNIQUE (topscore_event_id) ); -- Score update history for audit trail CREATE TABLE score_updates ( id UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(), game_score_id UUID REFERENCES game_scores(id) ON DELETE CASCADE , updated_by TEXT NOT NULL , -- topscore_person_id home_score INTEGER NOT NULL , away_score INTEGER NOT NULL , game_status TEXT NOT NULL , updated_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW () ); -- User push notification preferences CREATE TABLE user_preferences ( topscore_person_id TEXT PRIMARY KEY , push_enabled BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE , notification_timing TEXT DEFAULT 'immediate' , -- 'immediate', 'batched', 'digest' quiet_hours_start TIME , quiet_hours_end TIME , team_chat_enabled BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE , announcement_categories TEXT [] DEFAULT ARRAY[ 'all' ], score_notifications_enabled BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE , created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW (), updated_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW () ); -- Calendar subscriptions for ICS export CREATE TABLE calendar_subscriptions ( id UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(), topscore_person_id TEXT NOT NULL , subscription_type TEXT NOT NULL , -- 'team', 'all_teams', 'individual_event' team_id UUID REFERENCES teams(id) ON DELETE CASCADE , event_id TEXT , ics_token TEXT UNIQUE NOT NULL , created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW (), last_synced_at TIMESTAMPTZ, UNIQUE (topscore_person_id, subscription_type, team_id, event_id) ); 5.2 Row Level Security Policies Row Level Security ensures users can only access data appropriate to their role and team memberships. The following policies implement access control for each table. Team membership determines chat access. Users can only send messages to teams where they have an active membership record. Team members can read all messages in their team's chat history. Non-members cannot access team conversations regardless of other credentials. Score reporting is restricted to captains. Only users with the 'captain' role in the team_members table can insert or update game_scores. All users can read game scores. The policy validates the reporter's captain status before allowing score updates. Announcement visibility depends on targeting and role. League-wide announcements are visible to all users with active registrations in the league. Division announcements reach users in that division. Team announcements are restricted to team members. Authors can always see their own announcements regardless of targeting. Announcement creation requires appropriate role. League admin role (identified via TopScore) can create any announcement. Team captains can create team-scoped announcements only. Preference management restricts users to their own settings. Each user can only read and modify their own preference record. No cross-user preference access is permitted. Calendar subscriptions are user-scoped. Users can only manage their own calendar subscriptions. ICS tokens are cryptographically random and cannot be guessed. 6. User Interface Design 6.1 Navigation Structure The application uses a bottom tab navigation pattern with nested stack navigators for each tab section. This structure provides quick access to primary features while maintaining logical grouping and back navigation support. The home tab serves as the main dashboard, presenting a personalized overview. The top section displays upcoming events from all teams in a scannable card format. The middle section shows recent announcements requiring attention. The bottom section provides quick actions for common tasks such as opening team chat or viewing today's schedule. The my registrations tab displays all registrations organized by type. Current, pending, and historical registrations are organized into sections. Each registration links to related team or event information. The teams tab lists all associated teams with quick access to team-specific features. The teams list supports swipe actions for pinning favorite teams. Team detail navigation leads to roster, schedule, and chat screens within a nested stack. The schedule tab presents a comprehensive calendar view. Tab bar options switch between calendar, list, and map views of events. Filtering controls limit display to specific teams or event types. Export controls provide calendar subscription management. The chat tab displays all team conversations. Conversations are sortable by recent activity. Unread badges indicate pending messages. Search functionality enables finding specific conversations or message content. The profile tab provides account management and settings. Profile information links to the TopScore profile. Notification preferences are fully configurable. Account actions include logout and support contact. 6.2 Design System The application implements a cohesive design system that ensures consistency across all screens and components. The design language prioritizes readability, accessibility, and efficient information display appropriate for mobile contexts. Color palette uses primary, secondary, and accent colors with semantic assignments. Primary blue (#1E88E5) establishes brand identity and interactive elements. Secondary dark gray (#37474F) provides text contrast and section headers. Accent green (#43A047) highlights positive actions and confirmations. Warning amber (#FFA000) indicates attention-required items. Error red (#E53935) communicates failures and urgent alerts. Background light (#FAFAFA) and surface white (#FFFFFF) ensure content readability. Typography establishes clear hierarchy through font weights and sizes. Headline Large (28sp, Bold) titles primary screens. Headline Medium (24sp, SemiBold) sections major content blocks. Body Large (16sp, Regular) provides comfortable reading for content. Body Medium (14sp, Regular) handles secondary information. Caption (12sp, Regular) displays timestamps and metadata. Spacing follows an 8-point grid system for alignment and visual rhythm. Micro spacing (4dp) separates inline elements. Small spacing (8dp) groups related items. Medium spacing (16dp) separates content sections. Large spacing (24dp) creates visual breathing room between major blocks. Extra Large spacing (32dp) frames screen edges and major divisions. Component library defines reusable UI elements. Buttons support primary, secondary, and text variants with consistent sizing. Cards display content with consistent elevation and corner radius. Lists use consistent row heights and divider styles. Input fields share validation styling and helper text patterns. Chips and badges communicate status and categorization. 6.3 Read-Only UI Patterns Consistent UI patterns communicate read-only status throughout the application. A banner at the top of team and event screens states &quot;This information is read-only. To make changes, visit Pada.org.&quot; Edit buttons and forms visible on the website are replaced with informational notices on the mobile app. Links to relevant website sections are provided where users might want to take action. Score reporting screens show a clear distinction from read-only screens. The &quot;Report Score&quot; button and score entry interface are visually distinct and clearly labeled. Confirmation dialogs emphasize that scores will be shared with the team. Audit trail indicators show when scores were last updated. 6.4 Accessibility Considerations The application implements accessibility best practices to ensure usability for all users. All interactive elements meet minimum touch target sizes of 44x44 points. Color contrast ratios meet WCAG AA standards for text readability. Screen reader labels provide meaningful descriptions for all UI elements. Focus management ensures keyboard and accessibility navigation works correctly. Dynamic type support allows text scaling without layout breaking. 7. Push Notification Architecture 7.1 Notification Types The application delivers notifications across four categories: chat messages, announcements, schedule updates, and live scores. Each category has distinct delivery characteristics and user preference controls. Chat notifications alert users to new messages in team conversations they belong to. These notifications are immediate and include sender name, team name, and message preview. Users can configure chat notifications by team, muting conversations where they prefer to check manually. Announcement notifications deliver league and team broadcasts. Urgent announcements trigger immediate high-priority notifications with preview content. Standard announcements follow user-configured timing preferences. Category filtering allows users to receive only announcements relevant to their interests. Schedule notifications provide timely reminders and updates about events. Automatic reminders precede events based on user-configured intervals. Weather-related updates notify users of cancellations or time changes when announced by league administrators. Score notifications inform users when captains report or update game scores. These notifications include team names and current score. Users can disable score notifications independently from other notification types. 7.2 Delivery Infrastructure Push notifications are delivered through a combined approach using Supabase Edge Functions and Expo's push notification service. This architecture provides reliability, scalability, and cross-platform support. The notification pipeline begins when events trigger notification generation. Chat messages invoke a Supabase database trigger that queues a notification task. Announcement creation calls an Edge Function that queries affected users and queues notifications. Score updates trigger immediate notifications to team members. Schedule changes are processed through a scheduled Edge Function that checks for upcoming events and reminder eligibility. The Edge Function handler formats notification content and routes to appropriate delivery channels. Expo Push Service delivers to iOS and Android devices. Web push notifications reach users accessing the web platform. Delivery tracking monitors notification success rates and user engagement. Failed deliveries are retried with exponential backoff. Engagement metrics inform notification frequency recommendations. Users receive periodic digests when they accumulate many unread notifications. 8. Security Considerations 8.1 Authentication Security Authentication security implements multiple layers of protection. OAuth2 tokens are stored in encrypted storage that requires device authentication to access. Tokens expire after configurable intervals forcing periodic re-authentication. Refresh tokens enable seamless session extension without repeated password entry. Session invalidation immediately revokes access when users log out or administrators revoke permissions. Role verification happens on both client and server. The mobile app checks user role locally to show or hide captain-only features. Supabase Row Level Security policies validate role server-side before allowing write operations. This defense-in-depth approach prevents role spoofing. 8.2 Data Security Data security protects user information at rest and in transit. All API communications use HTTPS with certificate pinning preventing man-in-the-middle attacks. Local storage encrypts sensitive data using platform-native secure storage mechanisms. Database connections use SSL with certificate verification. Row Level Security policies enforce data isolation at the database layer. Users can only access their own data and data shared with them through explicit relationships. Administrative access requires elevated credentials with separate authentication. Audit logging tracks data access patterns for security monitoring. 8.3 Privacy Compliance Privacy compliance ensures the application meets applicable data protection requirements. Privacy policies clearly explain data collection and usage practices. Users control their notification preferences and can opt out of non-essential features. Data export capabilities allow users to retrieve their information. Account deletion removes personal data while preserving necessary records for legal compliance. 9. Implementation Phases 9.1 Phase 1: Foundation (Weeks 1-4) The foundation phase establishes the core infrastructure and basic functionality. Project setup includes React Native with Expo initialization, navigation structure, and design system implementation. TopScore authentication integration enables OAuth2 login flow with secure token storage. Basic screens provide user profile display and initial app shell structure. Supabase project setup configures database schema and Row Level Security policies. CI/CD pipelines automate builds for iOS and Android platforms. Deliverables for Phase 1 include functional login/logout flow, user profile screen, bottom tab navigation, design system component library, Supabase database with security policies, and CI/CD pipeline. Testing validates authentication flows, secure token storage, and screen rendering across target devices. 9.2 Phase 2: Core Read-Only Features (Weeks 5-10) The core features phase implements the primary Pada.org read-only functionality. Registration viewing displays user's associated registrations from TopScore. Team listing displays user's teams with navigation. Team detail screens show roster and team information read-only. Schedule viewing provides calendar and list views of events. Event details show comprehensive game and practice information. Deliverables for Phase 2 include registration viewing screens, team listing and detail screens, schedule calendar and list views, event detail screens, and read-only UI patterns. Testing validates API integration, data display, offline capability, and read-only enforcement. 9.3 Phase 3: Communication and Calendar Features (Weeks 11-14) The communication features phase implements chat, announcements, calendar export, and live score reporting. Chat infrastructure includes Supabase real-time subscriptions, message sending and receiving, and typing indicators. Announcement display presents broadcasts in dedicated screens. Admin announcement creation provides broadcast composition for league admins. Live score reporting provides the captain-only score entry interface. Calendar export implements ICS generation and subscription management. Push notification integration delivers timely alerts. Deliverables for Phase 3 include Supabase real-time database for chat, chat message sending and receiving, announcement display and management, admin announcement creation interface, live score reporting for captains, calendar export and subscription features, and push notification delivery. Testing validates real-time updates, notification delivery, score reporting validation, and calendar integration. 9.4 Phase 4: Polish and Launch (Weeks 15-16) The polish phase prepares the application for production release. Performance optimization improves load times and interaction responsiveness. Accessibility audit ensures compliance with accessibility standards. Beta testing gathers feedback from selected user group including captains for score reporting validation. Bug fixes address issues identified during testing. App store submission prepares listing assets and metadata. Launch orchestration coordinates rollout across platforms. Deliverables for Phase 4 include optimized performance metrics, accessibility compliance documentation, beta feedback resolution, App Store and Play Store listings, and production deployment. Testing validates final build stability, role-based feature access, and user acceptance. 10. Estimated Timeline and Resources 10.1 Development Team Requirements The recommended team composition for a four-month implementation includes one senior React Native developer responsible for mobile application development, one backend developer handling Supabase configuration, Edge Functions, and calendar integration, one UI/UX designer creating design specifications and asset production, and one project manager coordinating timeline, resources, and stakeholder communication. 10.2 Technical Dependencies Critical technical dependencies include Pada.org TopScore account with API access credentials configured, Supabase project provisioned with appropriate tier based on expected scale, Expo developer accounts for iOS and Android build capabilities, Pada.org branding assets including logos and color specifications, and calendar service integration requirements for ICS generation. 10.3 Maintenance Considerations Ongoing maintenance requirements include API integration monitoring for TopScore changes, security patch application for dependencies and platform requirements, feature enhancement based on user feedback and usage analytics, server infrastructure management for Supabase resources, and calendar subscription handling as schedules change. 11. Conclusion The proposed Pada.org mobile companion application is technically feasible using modern mobile development technologies integrated with the TopScore API. The implementation leverages TopScore for read-only access to leagues, teams, schedules, and registrations while adding custom features for team chat, announcements, calendar export, and live score reporting using Supabase's real-time capabilities. The four-phase implementation plan spans approximately sixteen weeks from project initiation to production launch. The phased approach enables iterative delivery of functionality with regular stakeholder review and feedback integration. This implementation plan reflects the updated scope that excludes registration functionality (remaining on the website), limits the application to read-only display of team and event information, adds calendar export capabilities for external calendar integration, and introduces live score reporting exclusively for team captains. The recommended next steps include securing TopScore API credentials and confirming API scope with Pada.org administrators, engaging a development team with React Native and Supabase experience, conducting user research to validate feature priorities with focus on read-only workflows, and establishing project governance including stakeholder review cadence and success metrics. This implementation plan provides the comprehensive foundation for delivering a high-quality mobile experience that serves Pada.org members and strengthens community engagement through improved accessibility, team communication, and real-time score sharing. 
